Is the are the productivity gains from
this going to be as big or bigger than
what we saw from personal computers and
the internet?
>> Oh, it's far bigger. It's far far
bigger. Yeah. I I I feel
>> 98% confident.
[Music]
[Applause]
Hey guys, great to see you both. Uh,
Bill, maybe I don't know, you're up in
Tahoe or something and we're thrilled to
have one of our great friends, Michael
Dell on to chop it up with us. Happy 4th
of July, you guys. Most of you know
Michael. Um, he's built obviously one of
the most iconic technology companies.
Starting in his dorm room, I don't know
what, 40 years ago, Michael. I think you
just had your 40th anniversary.
>> 41 years ago.
>> 41 years ago. and now a major player in
AI. You know, you you spun off VMware,
of course, and now you're a major owner
of Broadcom and Dell remains a hundred
billion dollar business. I think you own
uh you know, like like Larry Ellison,
you own a lot of the business, maybe
half of the business, and it's one of
the largest builders of AI servers on
the planet. And obviously, in addition
to that, you and your incredible wife
Susan have an amazing foundation. You do
you do great work in Texas and around
the country. I saw that you just
contributed to uh the disaster relief.
What a tragedy in Texas. And so kudos to
you both for all the good work you do on
so many issues, but particularly in the
state of Texas. And then, you know, of
course, it was great to have you and
Susan as partners on Invest America. I
know we're going to talk about that
today. And everybody should run out and
read your book, Play Nice But Win. Um,
I'm actually I would recommend they
listen to it because Michael took what I
understand to be a very painful process
for an author to read their entire book,
but it's Michael's voice and the
inflection and the like you get nuances
I don't think you would get just with
the writing.
>> Well, thank you for saying that, Bill,
and and uh appreciate the kind
introduction, guys. Look, I mean, I
think if you're going to take the time
to write a book, which is a major
endeavor if you really do it yourself
and do it right, and I did have somebody
helping me, by the way, so I'm not going
to take full credit for it. I think you
should take the additional time to
record the audio book because you can uh
display emotion, intonation, and really
tell the story in your own voice. and
and it's it's a powerful
uh way to convey uh thoughts and
emotions at the same time. And uh I love
audio books. I love I love going outside
and walking, hiking, and turning on a
good audio book is a great way to do to
do it.
>> Totally. Well, in in the spirit of
storytelling, Michael, do you remember
when you first met Gurley?
>> Yeah, I do remember when I first met
Gurley. Uh this was this was in the in
the '9s and
Bill had written this research report
that was super thick. And I'm reading
this report and I'm like how the bleep
bleep bleep does this guy know more
about our business than we do. It's like
what? We must be totally screwing up
here. and and uh he had uncovered a
whole bunch of analysis and thoughts
about our business and we were so busy
uh kind of distracted by growth that we
had missed a few things and Bill shined
a massive light on that and it was super
helpful. So I I I uh became a fan
instantly of his work and I've been a
fan ever since.
>> Brad, that was 32 years ago. Even Even
though when when I read the report, I
was like, damn,
uh, we we should have figured this out.
>> This was 32 years ago. I was 28, Michael
was 29, and running a public company,
and I've always cherished the fact that
Michael's a year older than me, so I
always have time to catch up.
>> Well, it's great to great to be here
with the kids.
Bill, what was tell us just a second
about um because the '9s I think has
some some parallels to the period that
we're living in now. So you know Dell
was growing incredibly fast obviously
building lowcost highquality computers
what inspired you to start covering Dell
and then you know uh was what led you to
these insights like did you just focus
on that company? Was it was this a you
know a breakthrough piece of work for
you? Well, Michael's heard this before,
so I I'll hopefully won't bore bore him,
but um I I had worked in the PC
industry. I spent over two years at
Compact in Houston. And you know,
interestingly, I think being inside of
Compact, we had a view of Dell that
wasn't as respectful as it should have
been. Um and once I got outside and was
able to look at the numbers in a
different way, I was able to see things
more clearly. But but the gentleman that
that made this all click in terms for me
was Michael Moeson who you know of um
but he had taught me to look at return
on invested capital. That's part of what
Michael was referring to. The company
had insane um you know balance sheet
turnover um in a way that that the the
cash flow relative to the earnings was
really high and the ROIC was 10x anyone
else in the business. Um and um yeah and
then for some reason probably just youth
I went and did a strong buy on the
initiation which um Michael made a bunch
of his employees rich. I I ended up
making a bunch of the salespeople rich
there at CSFB just as a result of of uh
riding on their coattails. But it was it
was quite
>> the 90s were fun. The 90s were fun. I
mean you know uh yeah stock went up
130,000%. We had seven stock splits. Uh,
four.
>> What was the value of the company when
you went public?
>> What was the total enterprise value or
market cap when you went public,
Michael?
>> Was like it was like $150 million or
something like that.
>> I mean, see, that's that's the beautiful
thing. That's like I mean that is a
series A in venture capital.
>> It went up 100x after this initiation
like in the public markets.
>> Yeah. So, Bill, I just need you to
recommend our stock one more time and
then
>> there was there there there was an
element that I think is is super
interesting like that that was also part
of what Michael was referring to, but
their their inventory turns were so damn
high compared to the rest of the
industry. So, they were they were, you
know, building to individual customer
order. They weren't building to
inventory. They're building to demand.
And um because component prices fell so
much, we calculated they got a 200 basis
point gross margin advantage just by
having the FIFO Q.
>> Oh my goodness. Yeah. Exactly.
>> Just in time.
>> This this was a this was a structural
competitive advantage. Uh by the way, it
still is. Um but so so the the point is
that the cost of the materials are
always coming down.
And if your competitor has, let's say,
90 days of inventory in a series of cues
with distributors and dealers, and you
have six days of inventory, which we
actually had for about seven years in a
row, six days of inventory, uh, think
about that. Um the it's a structural
competitive advantage because you're you
have fresher inventory, you have fresher
costs,
>> and of course you don't have all that
capital tied up. And so you're you're
return on capital is essentially
infinite, especially when you're paying
your suppliers
uh on uh a period longer than your your
customers pay you. And so you have a a
negative uh cash conversion cycle which
which we still have typically around
negative 50 days cash conversion cycle.
>> That's powerful.
>> It's a beautiful thing.
>> Yes, it is. Well, let's transition from
uh 32 years ago to the present.
>> Cash is king. Everything else is an
opinion.
>> No, no doubt. No doubt. So, so you two
just um had a big win with this Invest
America uh program that was just
announced as part of the big bill and I
know I know that Brad this was your baby
and you spent a ton of time on it, but
Michael came on board and helped out as
well. So, why don't you tell everyone
the details? We've talked about it
before, but tell them the details of
what landed.
>> Yeah. Well, thanks. and and and you know
I remember last Fourth of July we were
talking about this bill and I was
sitting right here and honestly I
thought the chance of of getting this
passed into legislation was you know
maybe 10% at best and we had some good
fortune. Um as you know um we the
legislation was called the Invest
America Act. It was a bipartisan
standalone bill and it ended up like a
lot of other pieces of legislation
getting subsumed by the reconciliation
bill. Right. So, a lot of these things
got packaged together in this one bill.
And of course, it was signed into law on
July 4th down at the White House. You
know, I've been at this four years. You
know, I tried to get it done under
Biden, but the stars just aligned in
this moment. And and Michael was pretty
early to get on board and support this.
joined the CEO council um for Invest
America but played a critical role with
the president to help get it into the
reconciliation bill over the course of
the last 60 days. But let's just talk
about exactly what it means now that
it's become law. So I think of this as a
pretty significant evolution in the
social contract. It creates private
investment savings accounts, privately
owned for every child at birth, seated
with a thousand bucks in the S&P 500.
So, parents, companies, philanthropists
can add money. Anybody can add money to
these accounts. You can't take the money
out of the accounts, right? It just
compounds in the S&P 500 until you're 18
years old. So, we will spend the next
year putting the program in place. It
has to be launched under the terms of
the legislation by July 4th, 2026, the
250th birthday of America. And
basically, we got it expanded. So all
kids under the age of 18, that's 65
million kids are eligible. And I give a
lot of credit to Senator Cruz who fought
to expand the pool of eligibility here.
So what that means is that they can open
up an account, but only children born
after January 1, 2025 get the $1,000
from Treasury, right?
>> The other the others will have an
account that someone else could put
money in on their behalf
>> and and they can add money to and there
are a lot of advantages for their
parents adding money uh for companies
adding money to it. So it makes a lot of
sense and my for Michael and I I think
the key performance indicator here is if
we're having this conversation a year
from now we want to have 50 or 60
million kids signed up. Now of course if
your child is born after July 4th of
then they're going to automatically get
an account set up when they get their
social security number and they will
automatically get the $1,000. But we
have this one-time group all kids under
the age of 18. We're going to have a big
campaign to get all those folks signed
up over the course of the next year. And
and I guess for me, I was reflecting on
this um over the course of the last few
days. And you know, at a time when you
have an avowed socialist like Ma'am
Donnie, you know, winning the primary in
New York, it seems like, you know, the
Invest America Act is really just the
exact opposite, right? You're both
trying to attack the problem of the
wealth gap, but this is by getting
everybody into the game of capitalism,
making everybody actual owners in the
upside of America's success rather than
resorting to price controls, attacking
businesses and success and creating
really more dependency on government.
So, I think we're at this critical
crossroads in America and I think the
Invest America Act comes at an important
point in time. I think a lot of people
think of it like a 529 account bill, but
I think that dramatically underestimates
what this is.
>> This is a lifetime investment account.
So, they can compound over the course of
your life. If you start with $1,000 and
you add $750 per year, at 18, that's
worth $50,000. At 30, that's worth
$170,000.
And at 50, it's worth a million dollar.
Right? So, it really is a platform for
unlocking dramatic compounding and
savings in the upside of capitalism from
birth. And um it wouldn't have happened
without Michael.
Well, and Brad, uh look, you deserve uh
99.9% of the credit. So, I'm going to
give it to you. Uh you you really drove
this thing uh passionately for several
years, and it's amazing that it got
done. I do think you'll see many
companies
provide uh matching contributions and u
you know a number of companies have
already said they're going to do that uh
and it'll be like a benefit you know
come work at our company and and uh have
a kid and your your your child will get
this uh and it's just going to be super
easy for anyone to add to those
accounts. I think it's also a chance to
teach every child about financial
literacy and about uh capitalism and
free markets and
uh you know look up in 15 or 18 years
and you've got 70 million kids with
these accounts. I also think you're
gonna have philanthropists and uh Susan
and I will will definitely be a part of
that that will say hey you know this is
a really good way to get money directly
to the next generation
in a uh way that is going to compound
and have a difference in in their life.
Our foundation has studied it this very
carefully and we believe it's worthy of
a significant contribution and Brad's
been working you know with with the
Treasury Department and others to set
this up so that you know any
philanthropist would be able to say hey
you know here's a zip code here's a
county here's a state here's a group of
kids that I'd like to help I don't know
who they are exactly
but uh I want to help and I want to help
their future and uh I I think I think
you'll see a lot of philanthropists get
very excited about this. I've had a
discussion with a number of them and
this could be a major platform for
philanthropy in our country. And and and
just to put a a sharper lens on that,
Michael, they might
>> back every kid in a state or everyone in
the nation on a year or just
>> adopt the state, adopt uh a series of
zip codes.
>> Uh you know, I think again it'll be a
platform for philanthropy.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I think I think of it, Bill, you
know, in some ways like the giving
pledge 2.0. I mean, we we we've had
massive wealth creation in this country,
like unprecedented wealth creation in
this country, right? But one unique
feature of America that I don't think
there's any other civilization in
history that you can point to, okay,
that has this character, which is the
super wealthy in America by and large
want to give away the vast majority of
their wealth during their lifetime or
shortly after they they die. I certainly
know that that Michael's in in that
group. Okay, think about this. In
Europe, right, they invented generation
skipping trusts. It was about coming up
with legal mechanisms for creating
dynastic wealth so as to not give any of
your money away. Okay? And we have a
culture in this country where people
want to give away large sums of money.
The challenge is the charitable
infrastructure has not necessarily
scaled to meet the needs of people who
want to give away billions of dollars at
a time. And I I I said to I asked
Michael and Susan the question over a
year ago. I said, you know, if you
wanted to give away a lot of money in
the state of Texas today, like how would
you do it directly to kids? And there's
not a good answer, right? Because
there's not a financial infrastructure
in place that has a set of rules
associated with it, you know, where you
could have somebody like the Treasury
Department. We're gonna have a poolled
Invest America account at Treasury where
Michael and Susan or other
philanthropists could give money to this
pulled account and it would be dispersed
to all these kids accounts subject to
all the rules and regulations of use. So
the kids can't take the money out but
they can see it compound. That simply
does not exist today. It's impossible to
do that at scale today. And at the the
the long end of the curve, if you think
about, you know, my family as an
example, we do a lot with the East
PaloAlto school district, um you know,
uh some of these lowincome school
districts in the state of California
where I can just adopt that school and
say for every kid in that school, I'm
going to give $1,000 a year to. So this
unlocks, I think, massive creativity,
Michael, around philanthropy. And that's
what I mean. What we know in Silicon
Valley if you build an open platform a
million applications can bloom. A
million ideas can be built on top of
this. I mean we've heard from states
that want to add $10,000 for every kid
born in the state if they, you know, if
they graduate from high school in the
state. So, I think we haven't even
scratched the surface of the beautiful
competition and the beautiful
philanthropy and the long tale of
philanthropy, churches and parents and
friends that we'll be able to give to
these accounts. And so, our job is to
make sure that we make it as
frictionless as possible that we work
and we're we're that's one of the core
things that we're doing.
>> And what you're describing those
accounts don't don't solely take money
at the initiation. and they can take
money all along the way, which is how
you could support a school or something
like that.
>> Correct. So, the way it works, Bill, is
um and all of this, I mean, Michael and
I, I think, learned a lot about the the
the act of of legislation going through
this because, you know, it's one thing
to get it put in the reconciliation
bill. It's one thing to get high level
buy in, but just in the last two weeks,
we were negotiating the nitty-gritty. I
think this was 23 pages of tax, you
know, uh changes in the reconciliation
bill associated with the Invest America
Act. So, families can give um or or
recipients can receive up to $5,000 a
year from family, from f friends, uh uh
you know, etc. Companies can give $2,500
a year per recipient tax-free, so
pre-tax. Um so Dell Corporation for
example has raised their hand and said
you know we intend to give uh to the
kids of of our employees. So has Uber so
has Nvidia so has Oracle. So has
Salesforce. So has uh T-Mobile. So has
iHeart Media. So you know it's an
incredible list that has already come
together. And we're going to go to the
business round table. We're going to go
to the largest companies in America and
we're going to ask them all to do it.
Now we're not telling them the amount
they need to give. All we're saying is
give an amount that's appropriate to
your company and to your employee base.
I just heard from Tony yesterday uh at
Door Dash. He retweeted something about
this. Sam Alman I heard from over the
weekend once he heard it was passed, you
know, retweeted something about this.
So, I think the the the business
enthusiasm is going to be very big and
substantial. But remember, the most
powerful givers are moms and dads,
grandparents, friends, birthdays, and
bar mitzvah. And all of those dollars
ultimately like don't really generally
find a home for savings and compounding.
And we're going to make it as easy as
Venmoing in this money, Apple paying
money in. And you know, one of the
studies that we did that was really
profound in partnership with the Milkin
Institute. They found a whole host of of
things. One was that lowincome cohorts
tend to save at about the same rate as
higher income cohorts. if they have an
account. The problem is that nobody in a
low-inccome cohort has a savings account
or investment account. So, I think
you're going to see, you know, a lot of
giving a lot of contributions by all
sorts of folks once we set this up. We
also learned that once we do this, kids
are more likely to graduate from high
school and college, more likely to start
a business, more likely to buy a home,
less likely to be incarcerated. So, I
think the societal ROI of this will be
really large over time. And it sounds
like you're going to try and find a way
where if someone wanted to donate,
Michael mentioned zip codes, but some
other way that if people wanted to just
target the the lowincome, most needy,
that there'll be a way to do that.
>> Yeah, this was really this was a really
important issue to Michael and to myself
and and you know, I'll just, you know,
give you a bit of a window into the
weeds. you know, we tried to get uh
household income as one of the one of
the targeting mechanisms and we weren't
able to get bipartisan agreement on
that, but we were able to get a proxy
for that, which is you can target by uh
by zip codes. So, you can target down to
groups of 5,000 or more by zip code. And
we think through that geo targeting, so
for example, Michael could target the
Rio Grand Valley. I could target, you
know, East Oakland. Um, you know, so
there there there zip codes that you
could target that I think uh certainly
include a predominance of lower income
uh households.
>> That's fantastic.
>> Hey, Bill, I know you've been involved
in financial literacy and education for
a long time. Tell us about the
organization you're partnering with and,
you know, perhaps as a you know, kind of
a a a potential partnership for Invest
America. Yeah, my wife and I have been
giving to an organization called NextGen
Personal Finance. Um, there's a
gentleman there named Tim Ranzetta who
has just been pushing for financial
literacy in high schools. So, we can add
a link in here, but from 2021 to 2025 in
only a 4-year window, um, we've gone
from 11 states to 29 states. Um, and
Texas just passed this very recently, a
few weeks ago. And so the idea, which
sounds obvious, it's actually quite
shocking that it's not true, is just to
add a semester of financial literacy to
the high school curriculum. Um, we send
kids out to get jobs and we haven't
taught them, you know, how credit cards
might take advantage of them and how to
build a monthly budget and how to use a
checkbook and, you know, how how to how
to plan. And so I think you know these
two things u complement each other quite
a bit but but that's another movement
that it's nice to see gaining momentum
simultaneously with this one.
>> Yeah it's you know I talked to Tim Texas
just became you know like you said 29th
state I think to require a semester of
financial literacy education. Um and you
know some people said you know the
Treasury Department, Invest America,
they're not going to own the financial
literacy. What what again I think when
you create a platform of ownership now
it makes all of these financial literacy
programs and organizations across the
country just way more effective. Right?
Because when you're talking to a kid who
actually you say open up your Invest
America account on your phone. Let's
talk about how you got 12,000$14,000
into that account. Let's look at how
it's compounded. Let's talk about what
it means to own the companies that are
listed there. What it means to be a
shareholder. I think you just have a
much more engaged student, right?
Because today 95% of those students
don't own anything and they look at
their parents and their parents don't
really own things. And so it's a lot
harder to get motivated to learn about
something when you don't think you're
going to have the prospect of ownership.
There are so many great organizations
like Tim's out there. Um, and I look
forward to seeing how they take this
platform and run with it to turbocharge
their own efforts.
>> Brad, I know you wanted to mention um
the budget deficit and and the funding
for this program and put it in a little
bit of perspective just with all the
talk and concern about how big the
budget deficit is.
>> Yeah. I mean, listen, you know, we've
had a uh a huge debate among our our our
friend group um uh about this and you
know, and some of my friends were even
critical that, you know, this is part of
the problem, if you will. So, you know,
to break this down, um the max cost of
this is 3.7 billion a year. We have a
3.7 million kids born every year. If you
give them each $1,000, that's 3.7
billion. So just to you know kind of put
that in context 3.7 billion is about
what we contribute we give to
Afghanistan and Nigeria in the terms of
foreign aid every year. So I think one
of the things as a country we just have
to ask is about priorities. Is it more
important to give every kid in America a
private investment account a little seed
from birth and get them on the right
track or to give $3.5 billion to
Afghanistan Nigeria? And I think those
are the type of choices we're going to
be forced to make. And I'm not saying
that the dollars going to Afghanistan,
Nigeria are wasted, but we make these
decisions every single day in our
budget. And so for me, this is, you
know, that's one angle. The second angle
is just as a percentage of our national
revenue. This is 1/100th of 1% of our
national revenue. So it it it's pretty
inconsequential in terms of the overall
budget. But the final point on it is, as
you've heard me argue, according to the
studies that were done on this, this
will actually be revenue contributing 20
to 30 years out because the taxes you
have to pay when you exit the accounts
on the capital gains will be more than
what the government is contributing on
an annual basis into the accounts. And
so among the things we should be worried
about when it comes to the budget, I
don't think this is one of one of them.
However, I would say unquestionably that
um I remain as concerned about the
budget deficit as ever. Um and you know
been a supporter of a balanced budget
amendment for a long time. I happen to
think that this is something that is
aligned with that, not at odds with
that. Making every kid a capitalist from
birth is going to better align us with
the policies that allow the company
country to be continue to grow. Um, and
I think growth is a critical element to
making sure that we get our deficit to
GDP back in a uh, you know, in in a
manageable place. Michael, I know you
care a lot about that issue. Any any
other thoughts on on that particular
point?
>> Yeah, I mean, government's obviously
been spending too much and uh, there's
been some some renewed attention and
focus on that. That that's a good thing.
Uh, it gets priced into to the currency,
right? And we see it in all the effects
uh
you know whether it's inflation or the
value of the currency
>> and uh you can't really uh escape that.
I I think the the the spending has to
come under control. Uh now maybe we get
this incredible uh productivity lift.
I'm sure we're going to talk about that
as we get to the AI fund portion here.
Um, but we shouldn't be spending uh so
much more than than we're taking in as
as a government. We, you know, we I've
sort of stepped back from the hysterics
and you say we don't have a loan to
value problem as a country. Um, we we
have a spending problem.
>> Talk to us about the I want to dig into
that because it's a really important
point. Talked about loan to value. When
you say loan to value, what do you mean
by that?
>> Yeah, what what I mean is the value the
the you know loan to value is a common
term and phraseology used in banking and
credit markets and essentially refers to
you know the the
uh amount of a of a loan relative to the
value that it's it's being borrowed
upon. If you think about the deficit
uh you know as against the value of all
the assets in the United States,
we don't have a loan to value problem.
>> And of course,
>> so the total value of all the assets in
the United States are a couple hundred
trillion. Our annual deficit is 2
trillion. So you would look at that and
say as a loan to value, that's not an
issue at all.
>> Well, I I would look at the total
deficit as against the the the total
value of the assets. All right. Now you
have
>> so 36 billion 36 trillion of debt
against 200 plus trillion of assets.
>> Right? Now you have to take into account
uh private uh assets and private debt
also. So it would be a different
equation there. But also the government
has taxing authority and so it could you
know increase the taxes but net it all
out. Uh the government shouldn't be
spending
what it's spending relative to what it
takes in. And there's many ways to
address that, but um
we we should we should be worried about
where the deficit is and the rate of
increase.
>> Let me ask a question about that. Um
well, first maybe to level set. So the
argument out of the White House is that
the reconciliation bill cuts the
deficit. So the deficit was about 1.9
trillion. Their argument um is that it
cuts the deficit by about 150 billion a
year. So 1.5 trillion over 10. Okay. And
then they also argue you get another
$250 billion in tariff revenue
incremental from the start of the year.
Right? We saw that in the run rate
revenue in the month of May. So you add
those two things together, now you're at
400 billion. So if you were at 1.9
trillion deficit, now you're down to
about $1.5 trillion deficit. By my math,
that drops it to about 5% deficit to
GDP. Bessant has said he will get it to
3% deficit to GDP, which is what most
people say is, you know, reasonably
healthy. Um, I think people would like
to, you know, not have any at all, but I
think most people view 2 to 3% as as as
reasonable. He thinks he can get there
by 27 or 28 through the two things I
just mentioned, right? tariff revenue
and the deficit reduction in the
reconciliation bill plus an incremental
100 to 200 basis points of growth in the
country caused by you know lower taxes
less regulation AI productivity etc. Um
so you know are is your view that we
just have to wait and see you know like
does that show up or does it not show
up?
Well, obviously we have to wait and see
see. Uh I think on the on the on the
trade and tariffs front,
I think this is this is very tricky,
right? Uh we have uh products flowing
back and forth and we have uh services
flowing back and forth. And if you think
about you know the market cap of the US
companies versus the rest of the world
uh hey guys uh US is doing really well
relative to the rest of the world in
market cap and the reason is that we
have
a substantial lead in the most valuable
industries in the world.
>> Correct.
And and so the the issue there is that
if you if you think about
um you know uh the the trade in
products, you also have to think about
the trade in services and you know how
that's going to be dealt with in a
negotiation. I don't know how that'll
all get sorted out, but I I I don't
think it's a I don't think it's a simple
one uh line item fix.
>> Right. Right. No, I think it's, you
know, I it's all relevant right now.
Elon's talking about forming a third
party, the American party, really in
response what appears to be frustration
over uh Doge and the budget deficit and
the concerns by folks like Ray Dallio
about, you know, a debt spiral in the
United States. Um, you know, you got
guys like Scott Bessant saying, you
know, Elon, you catch rockets, leave the
finances to me. Um, Bessant seems very
confident that he's going to get this
back down to two to 3% deficit to GDP. I
I actually like the the uh suggestion,
Bill, by Dantis. Um, you know, rather
than forming a third party, which seems
to me just chaotic and a lot of overhead
and has not historically been that
successful. I would love to see Elon,
you know, like if this is his his main
issue, if it's if if it's the budget
deficit and debt, which I would love to
see him take on, right? He could do a
series of things. Number one, he could
really sponsor a balanced budget
amendment to the Constitution of the
United States under article 5. If he put
$10 billion against that effort, it
would be the single largest
constitutional effort in the history of
the country. I think there's broad
bipartisan support uh for a balanced
budget amendment. We have 30 32 states
that have supported this in the past. I
think you only need 34 to get it uh uh
constitutional convention called. 38
states to get it ratified. You know, it
would it hasn't happened. Um, you know,
the founders made it hard to amend the
Constitution for a reason, but I
actually think if he put those type of
dollars and that type of focus behind
it, we could get it done. And then on
top of that, he could target
both Democrats and Republicans in
primaries around this issue. And to me,
it just seems like that targeted
approach, that very focused approach uh
to balancing the budget would have all
sorts of positive impacts. Number one,
it keeps the country focused on this
issue. It keeps this administration
focused on this issue. And, you know, I
think you have an outside chance at
getting a constitutional amendment, and
you certainly are going to have a lot of
of Republicans and Democrats who will
run on that issue if they think they'll
get, you know, Elon support. So, I'm not
sure how this will all evolve, whether
there's going to be a third political
party or not, but I would love to see
this issue get dealt with. I remember
Ross Perau tackling it. 1992, 1991,
Michael, um I I know you know you you
knew Ross and um you know, to me that
that type of attention is the type of
attention that that we're going to need.
>> Why don't we why don't we shift gears
here for a second? Um, this one I, you
know, I've been dying to ask you both
about. There's this really unprecedented
war for AI talent going on. Um, and it
it was kicked off by by Zuckerberg and
Meta. They made the Aqua hire of of
scale for $15 billion. Um, they brought
on board uh, Alexander Wang, you know,
to help lead that effort. Then they
brought on board Nat Friedman and Daniel
Gross. They've poached a bunch of people
from OpenAI, a bunch of people from
Google, and now today another, you know,
announcement of somebody from from
Apple. The talk is 75 to$100 million
annual pay packages, massive signing
bonus, really dollar amounts. Michael
and Bill, I don't I've never heard of uh
you know, in the tech industry. So,
Bill, given that recent set of facts,
like what is this is
Is this a good thing? Is this a bad
thing? What do you think the downstream
implications of this are?
>> Well, I mean, I would I would back up a
little bit. I don't think it started
with Meta. I mean, I think it started
with the cycle that we've been under in
the private funding market. you know, we
saw some of this stuff during Zer, but
um you know, we've moved to a world, and
I I talk about this in detail on on
Oshanessy's podcast if someone wants to
go listen to it from a few weeks back,
but we've evolved to a place where when
there's a successful company, the
latestage private market at large tries
to shovel feed cash into them. And so we
have private companies that have raised
not just a hundred million but a billion
or more. And we have a handful of
private companies um including OpenAI
who are um voracious and audacious
enough to burn two, three, four, five
billion dollars a year. And so you start
doing that and you create a situation
where private companies and we saw this
a lot during Zer but private companies
have an odd advantage against public
companies in that their the the
investors are more willing to let them
lose a lot of money than the public
investment you know investors may be
willing to. And so they get bold and
they get audacious and you know
Openai, Anthropic, they were all paying
people tons of money before Meta did
this. Um they were paying them 10
million a year. You know maybe smaller
than what you were talking about but
they were doing it. Um and they were
providing liquidity earlier like 2 years
in instead of waiting for four and
liquidity is a private company and all
of these things which in some cases may
have let these people leave because they
didn't have any lock in. So that may
that part may have backfired. Um but in
Zuck you know you have someone who's had
his back against the wall a couple times
and gotten bold and changed what he was
doing and succeeded again. And so he has
conviction that he's willing to take a
big bet. I think he's very willing to
look at cost as a percentage of his
market cap and to view risk as spending
against a percentage of his market cap.
Not everyone's capable of doing that. I
think it may be the right math actually.
>> Um in terms of you know how how big a
bet he wants to make. Um but yeah, it's
an what he has done here in the past
three weeks is is an experiment that's
never been tried before. But there's
unlimited free agency in business unlike
sports. And he just went and bought the,
you know, 27 Yankees, you know, of AI.
>> Yeah. I mean, and and I think your point
is a great one. And listen, we're
shareholders in Meta. We're shareholders
in Open AI. I wouldn't be a shareholder
in in in Meta if I didn't think, you
know, in fact, I remember back in 22
when um you know, when we took our big
position there and people said to me,
"Oh, what are you what are you doing?
this is a founder controlled company.
He's never going to become more
efficient. He's never going to do these
things. I said the whole reason I want
to be all in on this company is it's
founder controlled. I think it is a
massive advantage that he has today,
right? And he's talking about risking 1%
of his company, right? In order to
reboot around AI, that seems to me to be
a very very rational economic decision.
And there's no and this is just a talent
war. He's got to, you know, Llama 4 was
not where it needed to be to compete
heads up, but he has one advantage none
of those other companies have. He has
the world's biggest printing press
shooting out billion dollar bills,
right? He's not relying on the
beneficence of venture capitalists. The
guy has a business model that is
generating the cash to fund all this.
And so, he's leveraging that cash as a
source of competitive advantage, which
seems to me to make a lot of sense. I
think it's going to make it very
difficult and I'm, you know, that's why
I was asking about the downstream
implications, Bill. If you're a company
that's trying to compete against that, I
don't think many venture companies can
compete against that on a on a durable
long-term basis.
>> Certainly not the real startups.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I was having a discussion
with a real AI startup uh founder this
weekend and, you know, he was asking
about talent and like I I don't know
what you do. I mean, I don't think you
hire anyone that's top thousand in the
Bay Area. Um, you won't be able to
afford them. But, but I do think there
is a fundamental question because it's
easy to and I want to get Michael's
opinion on this. It's easy to say the
percentage of market cap and make that
bold decision. But there are cultural
implications, right, of bringing in
employees that make radically different
amounts of money than the other employee
base. How how do you think that will be?
How difficult will that be to manage?
I think it'll be a challenge culturally
for sure. Um,
you know, uh, he could have a long line
outside of his door, uh, w with people,
uh, you know, wanting this or
complaining about that and that could be
a distraction. So, you know, I think
people uh, generally have a sense of
fairness, right? and they they want to
be treated fairly
um relative to others and relative to
the the opportunities that they have out
there in in the overall market. And if
they feel that they're not being treated
fairly, uh that's going to be a problem.
So, I don't know how that I don't know
how that gets sorted out. I do think the
math could work for them given given
everything you guys just talked about.
Uh and and obviously if you uh reduce
this down to a race to super
intelligence or something along those
lines, the size of the prize is is
tremendous. And they do have an
incredible business that is aided by
these advancements uh in a in a big way.
And there aren't a whole ton of
companies that can go do this.
>> Yeah. And by the way, Brad, you
mentioned that they have the this unfair
advantage of this huge printing press,
but Apple and Google have the same exact
printing press and chose not to do this.
>> Yeah. I But but but neither of them are
controlled by founders.
And you know, that's what I was the
point I was trying to make. These are
the type of bets that I think it's very
very difficult for a Google or an Apple
to make um for the reasons you
mentioned, Bill. you know, can they sell
it to the public markets? You know, do
they have the type of decision-making in
the boardroom that allows this to occur?
I mean, at the end of the day, I think
at Meta, if Zuckerberg wants to do it,
that's what's happening. And that board,
you know, gets on board. In fact, he's
reshaped the board over the course of
the last couple years with folks who
are, I think, signed up for this uh for
this mission with him. Michael, to your
point, that's why I think he reorganized
this into the kind of super intelligence
division. I think the way they'll try to
manage this culturally is to say,
listen, there's going to be an elite
SEAL team 6 group, which is called super
intelligence, and we're going to pay
them elite pay because it's good for the
entire business. That doesn't mean we're
going to inflate everybody else. And in
fact, what I think that Meta will do is
uh you know, you'll probably see them
rolling back like you see with
Microsoft, like you see with Amazon. My
sense is that companies are generally
going to get smaller, right, on the
backs of the productivity gains from AI,
but they'll redeploy some of those
profits into these areas. If you're in
the model business and you want to be on
the frontier competing in the front, you
know, for super intelligence and there
only whatever 5 to seven companies that
really are in that game, then I think
you're going to have to have something
similar. Now, in the case of Open AI,
it's only 2,800 employees and they're
all part of that division effectively.
But you have to really get scale quickly
because if you're not bringing in 10,
20, 30, $40 billion of annual revenue, I
don't think you can stay in this game.
Um, and so the question is whether or
not Anthropic and X and OpenAI have a
sufficient escape velocity, right, that
they can take on this frontal assault by
uh by Meta and and and still compete. Um
I my sense is OpenAI does my sense is
both of those companies do but it's not
a long list uh that can compete with
that.
>> And by the way the the Nat Freiedman
edition was particularly interesting
just with his GitHub background. You
know we had talked in the past that Meta
had made a couple of hires on the
enterprise side and we had heard rumors
of you know certain payments when they
passed through the the cap on the open
models. Um but you know you have to
wonder with Nat coming on board if there
are more aspirations on the enterprise
side.
>> Yeah I I it's a great point and
certainly one of it creates some
optionality there. Hey Michael, question
for you. You know on this related topic
of productivity gains from leveraging AI
and kind of what you're seeing at Dell.
Um we've talked on this podcast what we
call the golden age of margin expansion.
you know, this idea that you're seeing
AI is uh certainly reacelerated your top
line in a pretty dramatic way. Um, but
doing that at a lot of companies at the
same time, you're able to do more with
less. Um, is that overstated or do you
think that we're in this phase over the
next 3, four, 5 years where generally as
an economy and certainly within a lot of
companies that they're going to be able
to, you know, have their top lines grow
faster than their operating costs?
because of AI.
>> It's it's absolutely real, Brad, and we
are doing it. We know of other companies
that are doing it. And I think, you
know, maybe only 10% of companies, large
companies have figured this out and the
other 90% are sort of a bit confused at
this point. But you know if I step back
and look at this you know 10%
productivity improvements pretty easy
20%
uh you know reasonably common sightings
of 30% or 40%. Those are massive
numbers. If you sort of step back and
you think about this, you know, you got
a $114 trillion global economy, right?
In 2025
and services economy is twothirds of
that. You know, if we believe that a 10%
improvement is possible in productivity,
if you just keep it simple and you say
10% improvement,
uh, that's worth 10 trillion dollars,
right?
And so uh the amount of investment that
is occurring today in AI could be uh
quite a bit less than is really
justified. I mean if if if if if we if
we believe in a 10 to 20% improvement
and I don't say that lightly because
that's like that's like an enormous
thing if if it were to occur. But let's
just stick with this for a second. If we
had a 20 10 to 20% improvement, the
investment in AI should be more on the
order of two to four trillion dollars
per year.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and that's not that's
not where we are.
>> Uh it's a lot less than that. So, uh,
you know, uh, I don't want to get too
ahead of myself here, but but I I I do
think there is a big change that is
occurring and we're just at the
beginning of it and it's going to affect
every part of uh our our world.
>> Well, you you you have particular
standing here, Michael, right? You saw
the productivity gain that came from a
computer on every desktop. You saw the
productivity.
>> That was the '9s. That we were talking
about that the '9s. That was fun.
>> You saw the productivity gain from the
internet. And now you're two years into
observing this. Is the are the
productivity gains from this going to be
as big or bigger than what we saw from
personal computers in the internet?
>> Oh, it's far bigger. It's far bigger.
Yeah. I I I feel 98% confident that it's
far bigger than than than the PC.
>> Uh the internet.
>> What about the internet?
>> Yeah. I mean, so of course all these
build on each other, right? Yes,
>> it's compounding but this is this is
this is bigger because it is essentially
all knowledge work
and uh I think I think it's an expansion
of the pie right it's it's really easy
to figure out what will be more
efficient and how you can reduce costs
uh but you know if you go back 20 years
ago it was very hard to see where the
new jobs would be. I think we're in a
similar situation here as well. Uh I do
I do think it will be expansionary for
the overall economy and for prosperity
and for well-being and human potential
broadly across all domains whether it's
in education, health, societal outcomes
etc.
Uh but yeah, this feels this feels
bigger.
>> I remember in 2001 2002, Michael, some
companies that were early to, for
example, Google, they figured out how to
gain, you know, like I think a
booking.com, right? They figured out how
to arbitrage the internet and Google to
build this giant business, right? And so
I would say like they figured out
productivity gains before the next
person and and and that was hugely
advantageous. And when you say that only
10% of companies are are leveraging this
today, it kind of sounds like the same
thing, like the early companies are
really there, but there's a huge amount
yet to come.
>> Well, you know, I think I think a I
think about the big companies in the
world. I'm talking like, you know, 10
billion plus revenue companies, uh, you
know, uh, 50 billion, 100 billion plus
revenue companies.
These companies have
an incumbency of sorts, right? They have
data, they have customers, they have
brands, they have IP, etc. But if they
don't move quickly to reimagine their
businesses given all this technology,
they will be destroyed by new companies
that come in with a totally clean slate.
And you know, that's you can already see
signs of that happening. So uh I think
this is all going to play out you know
in the next 3 to 5 years
uh and it will become sort of an urgent
priority
for companies to re reimagine themselves
and
uh you know what what we've done at at
Dell is is uh you know our our team
knows this because we we talk about it
all the time internally
um you
That was I think it was almost two years
ago. I stood up in front of a group of
our leaders and I said that five years
from then, that would be three years
from now, we're going to have a new
competitor and that new competitor is
going to be in every business that we're
in except they're going to be faster and
more efficient and more capable and
they're going to put us out of business.
>> And the only way we're going to prevent
that is we're going to become that
company. And and this is how we're going
to do it. and I sort of laid out our
best guess as to how to do that, you
know, two years ago. Uh we're pretty
far, you know, uh into that path and
well on our way and it's working, but
it's not an easy thing to do, right?
This is a this is sort of gut-wrenching
stuff to reinvent, reimagine. We've had
to do it many times. If you don't do it,
you just go out of business. So,
>> and that's no fun. So, we're not doing
that. and and and not everybody wants to
do it, you know, it's it's uh true. It's
hard.
>> Yeah. You're you're I was wondering if
you could expand on that a little bit.
So, your server division is your fastest
growing division. You've you know, we've
talked about on this podcast some of the
big wins you've had as part of large AI
clusters. How did how did you get Dell
in a position to be part of that next
wave? And what are the key what's the
key value ad from your products in those
large deployments?
>> Yeah, so last year our server networking
business grew 58%
uh year-over-year.
Um in the first quarter we had uh we
received 12.1 billion in AI orders. Uh
and by the way, our shipments
uh for all of last year in AI servers
were about $10 billion. So So we Soion
two years ago were two billion.
>> Yeah, it was it was it was not very much
two years ago. So we we took orders in
the first quarter for over 12 billion
and last year we shipped about 10
billion. So this is growing super fast.
And now we have a backlog of of uh a
little over 14 billion. So what
happened? Well, um you know, we we we're
already the leader in servers. Um we we
kind of saw the GPU thing
and
it's a it's a combination of things. I
mean, when when Nvidia releases a
reference design,
um it it's kind of a reference design.
It doesn't really work.
You know, we love Nvidia, but but uh you
know, somebody's got to make all this
stuff. And so we uh tons of tons of
engineering
and obviously there's a logistics the
supply chain building these 100,000 plus
GPU clusters and making them work
reliably is super complex. So it's a
combination of
engineering
uh operations
um you know we we often will help with
the financing of these with our uh Dell
financial services
and uh you know this the scale of these
things is enormous. me right we talked
about this at Deltech world right now
we're deploying these systems that will
produce uh you know deliver more than 50
trillion tokens per month and if you put
that in the context of Google statements
or Microsoft statements I mean this is
massive scale uh systems
and uh yeah I don't think there are a
ton of companies that that are able to
to to do this and have them work
reliably.
>> And Jensen has said, you know, you guys
have distinguished yourself against your
competitors, um, other ODMs like Foxcon
or Quanta, etc. Um, you know, you've
been first to market. You're launching
the GB300's right now. You're partner.
>> Yeah, we delivered the first GB300's
uh, a couple days ago to uh, Core
Weeave. We announced that we actually
have delivered another GP00 GP300 system
to another customer. Uh I don't think
we've disclosed who that is yet, but um
informed listeners of this podcast will
probably guess. So, so the the thing
that I'm, you know, a year ago, we were
all sitting around and talking about the
ups and downs of the overbuild in 2000,
right, around the internet. And you
know, and and and yet when I look at the
trajectory that we're on, right, I saw
Mike Intrur on, you know, CNBC today and
he said, "Listen, we're still
underestimating the amount of demand
that's out there in the world." And when
when he says it or when you say it or
when Jensen says it, in some ways people
would argue it's self- serving. Of
course, you guys are going to say that.
That's your business. You're going to
you're going to tell everybody your
business is great. But you're known as a
very sober guy who tells it like it is.
And what I want you to do is reflect a
little bit on the comparison between
this and the period in early 2000 when
we did get overbuilt, right? And you
know the as the saying goes, every
shortage ends up in a glut. Why are we
not near that point yet today uh in this
market?
>> Well, I mean you you guys as students of
the market can go back and you know uh
sort of review what the multiples were
on earnings and cash flow you know
around that time. We're nowhere near
that for the most part. Right.
>> U but if we go back to the
uh underlying activity here uh it's all
about the tokens, right? And as we go
from basic queries to uh test time
compute to deep reasoning to agents and
multi- aent systems, the number of
tokens just explodes. And what are we
talking about in token? When we're
talking about tokens, we're talking
about knowledge, right?
And
>> exactly
>> um you know I don't know about you but
I'm using these tools like 50 times a
day as my thought partner
>> to solve problems and
>> uh you know quelch my curiosity
>> and uh you know my usage is skyrocketing
and uh you know often multiple models
and it's going out there and querying
all these websites doing calculations
for me and helping me solve problems you
know faster than I ever could in in the
past and
uh you know the this this I think it's
just at the beginning right and uh the
substrate for all of this of course is
compute and data right so we love that
at Dell Technologies because that's what
we do
>> and so there is a there's just a ton of
>> growth here I think It will also be um
highly distributed. I think it will be
uh you know it'll occur in devices.
It'll occur in the edge. It'll occur uh
you know in all sorts of places and it
it does does feel like we're we're still
a lot closer to the beginning here.
>> What can you share about onprim AI
deployments? Michael, are you seeing
anything interesting there?
Yeah. So, we we in in the last year um
you know delivered a little over 3,000
of these Dell AI factories and you know
those are increasingly to enterprise and
commercial customers
that want to bring the AI to their data
not the data to the AI.
>> Yeah. And you know there's just a ton of
data that uh is still on prem and being
generated on prem. And it turns out you
know these large models are fantastic
but you don't always need the largest
model to solve every problem. A lot of
the corporate use cases are perfectly uh
done with smaller models and open source
models. And so you see this enormous
proliferation and hugging face of models
of all shapes and sizes, tons of
cascading innovations.
And so I think this is going to be
highly distributed.
Uh and we're definitely seeing growth in
onrem and and coloss are also a big
deal. uh you know
because many customers don't want to
have the data center themselves and so
they'll they'll put it in a collocation
facility and we've also adopted the
consumption type model so you can pay on
a you know usage type basis.
what is your you know when you look at
just kind of the relative distribution
between you know kind of the custom AS6
world what you see happening across you
know folks like AMD and Nvidia um you
know there's obviously a lot of chatter
you have an interesting perspective both
as a consumer of these products also as
a builder and distributor of the
products um is is there are there any
you know pending big changes or as you
look ahead over the course of the next
year or two that's probably as far ahead
as you and see does it look like the
relative landscape is stable or are
there big breakthroughs coming that may
unseat somebody like like Nvidia
you know Nvidia is in a great spot I
mean to your question I think uh for the
larger um model companies and
hyperscalers
uh certainly custom AS6 are gaining a
lot of share and when you have control
over the workload and you can uh you
know take the time to optimize your
workload.
Um you know that's certainly going to be
a part of what occurs in the
infrastructure but it's a it's not a
large number of customers you were
talking about the number of companies
developing models. It's sort of that
number of customers but they're large
right as you've seen with Google and
Meta and others.
uh who are who are deploying the AS6,
>> you know, maybe just in the to be
respectful of time, Bill, um I could
talk to Michael for uh you know, for
hours about this particular subject, but
maybe do you know, one of the people I
talked to when the market's going wild
is is is Michael. Um you know, we
certainly saw that earlier this year.
Um, you know, it's pretty incredible to
see the snapback that we've seen out of
the NASDAQ, the S&P. I think the NASDAQ
is now up 32% off of its bottom uh 2
months ago. Just as a data point, I
think I think Dowell got as low as I
don't know 75 72 bucks. It's back at 120
bucks now. That is an incredible bounce
off the bottom, but it's still basically
up I don't know 5 or 10% on the year.
It's not like it's in this astronomical
range when you look at kind of year-to
date or over the course of the last 12
months. And and so when I look at the
markets and I want to get both, you
know, your read on this is as well,
Michael.
Here we are. We have the the NASDAQ and
the Q the Q's and the S&P on an all-time
highs. Bitcoin Bitcoin's near an
all-time high. The VIX is back to 15 or
16, basically where it was in February.
uh despite you know uh all of the things
around uh tariffs the 10-year everybody
talks about this you know the great debt
spiral that we have in the country but
the 10ear has been between 3.7 and 4.7
for the last two years it's at 4.2 to
kind of smack dab in the middle if not
at the lower end of that range. Um, you
know, and then you see companies like
TSM and Nvidia and Microsoft, Oracle,
Booking.com, Uber, Dash, they're at
all-time highs, but notwithstanding the
fact that they're at all-time highs. You
have Tesla down over 20% on the year,
Apple down 15% on the year, Google's
down on the year, um, Amazon's basically
flat on the year. So you have a lot of
dispersion in the market when you look
at the at at the market. Um you know
does it feel to you again like we're in
this bubble territory? Does it feel uh
as uh a company that is that it's kind
of accurately reflecting set aside your
stock. I don't want you to comment on
your stock. I'm just talking about the
mar market at large. Are the US markets
higher in three to five years or are
they are you know or are they not given
given where we sit today? I would bet
they're higher. I would bet that more
and more companies figure out how to,
you know, grow their businesses. You
know, I talked earlier about the
productivity and efficiency. I think the
ultimate benefit is going to come from
the speed at which companies transform
and the growth that they're able to
create. That's certainly how we see it
in our business. And
um yeah, I think I think you know a lot
of these companies will be able to
compound their earnings on a
double-digit basis and the market
largely you know overall indices will
will become more valuable.
>> Yeah, it's a you know I do think that
this moment in time we're seeing a lot
of dispersion. And I mentioned it,
right? Some companies being down this
year, some companies up a lot. I really
think the companies that are leveraging
AI that are in a position to leverage it
and to capture that margin expansion,
we're going to see a reaceleration. And
we've heard this out of folks like
McDermott and Shredar and Jensen, you
know, at all these companies, how
they're reacelerating topline, but
they're not adding people, right? That,
you know, it's kind of net flat. We see
this out of Uber. We see it out of Dell
>> when the markets dipped down. Uh, our
share buyback program went into went
into high gear, you know,
>> right? And
>> we bought back 22 we bought back 22
million shares. So, you know, stock
>> worked out well for you.
>> As I look at this flight path, we just
we just landed,
>> you know, the reconciliation bill. So,
there was a lot of uncertainty in the
world to start the year. One was what
was going to happen? Was this
reconciliation bill going to pass? Now,
it's passed. So we have tax
predictability, right? You have an
extension of the existing tax regime and
then you have the no tax on tips, the no
tax on overtime. So you have this
incremental stimulus now coming from the
reconciliation bill. On top of that, you
know, tariffs while still up in the air,
the market kind of is digested the
tariff stuff, right? and absent some big
blow up between us and China um you know
if we follow the Besson accords that
they reached in Switzerland um and then
reiterated in London it seems like the
big pieces of the tariff puzzle are
falling in place and then on the rate
front the market is estimating that the
next move is down whether we're going to
have one or two rate cuts you know at
the end of the year um is is the
question some people the Fed is saying
we're on hold we're going to wait and
see whether or not inflation
reacelerates this summer due to tariffs.
So, that's what everybody's eyes are on
over the course of the next 6 to 8
weeks. Does core PCE tick up, you know,
due to those tariffs? I'm taking the the
under on that, but we're going to have
to wait and see. And then on
fundamentals, I think what we're hearing
from companies, and this is where the
rubber meets the road, earnings, I think
we had 85% of companies beat in the S&P
500 in the quarter. And if you just go
through and look at keywords, it was
accelerating, it was AI, it was
reinventing our business. There is a
real growth um you know feeling in the
market and among these companies. And so
from our perspective and we try to uh
give people an indication of where we
are. I mean, I was as negative, as you
well know, Michael, um, early in the
year, I was as negative as I' I've been
in 10 years because I thought if we were
going down the path of Navaro and $2
trillion of tariffs that it was all, you
know, every all bets were off. That was
a scary path, you know, and and you
know, we talked about how
>> if they went down that path, I thought
they would reverse course
>> because it wouldn't work,
>> you know. And this I think this is a
very
>> iterative team that will experiment, lay
some stuff out there. Not all of it's
going to work. There'll be some bad
ideas and then they'll reverse course.
>> Yeah. I hope we don't
>> we did do that.
I hope we don't snatch uh defeat from
the jaws of victory here with with
policy though. You know, I think you
know going back into the tariff game um
some type of bold confrontation with
China um and you know our AI policy. I
mean, one thing we didn't talk about in
this past week, the the AI moratorum got
removed from the bill and we're going to
have 70 state laws in the United States,
which is not great for AI startups. So,
anyway, I hope we don't I hope we don't
I hope we don't I hope bad policy
doesn't upset what would be an otherwise
uh very potent landscape based on AI.
>> Yeah, fully agree. I I think it's one
thing that the three of us are in
violent agreement on. One of the things
that's moved this country forward for
the last three decades is we've led
globally in technology. And we've led
globally in technology because we've
allowed our best technologies to move
freely around the world and to compete
and to win. This is the first time since
I've been in this business that we're
talking about export controls and AI
diffusion laws that are restricting the
ability of our technology to go compete
and win. Right. And there's both the
question mark as it relates to inside of
China, but also the question mark
outside of China. And while we've seen
the repeal of the Biden diffusion um uh
rule, what I'm told is that no new
licenses have been granted for uh you
know for distribution of AI technologies
around the world despite all of the
discussion around this. So, it's
critical that Washington follows through
and that we accelerate diffusion around
the world of the entire American AI
stack that we don't regulate that out of
Washington. And then I think there are
some legitimate regulations that you can
have as it pertains to China. But even
there, I would much rather let our
deprecated chips out of Nvidia go
compete against Huawei in China. keep
the developer mind share in China
because it's going to make it easier for
us to win globally and elsewhere around
the world. Um, and I think it's
important that that Michael, myself,
everybody else, Bill, you are those
voices are being heard. We're not out of
the woods on this by a long shot.
>> By the way, you you reminded me of one
other thing I'd just like to harp on,
which is the skilled immigration piece.
So uh someone highlighted to me that
they made like the huge wanted poster of
all the people that Meta has borrowed
from other companies like like 60 or 70%
of them were were of Chinese origin. And
as I understand it right now, you know,
there are PhD students or are candidates
in China that can't get visas and get in
um to the United States right now. And
we go back to what Trump said on Allin
that he wanted to staple a visa to every
diploma. I'd really like to get, not
that we're in charge, but I'd love to
get that conversation going again. Um,
it would be very powerful for the
country to increase skilled immigration.
Um, and it feels like we might be
decreasing it.
>> Yeah, absolutely agree. And and to your
point, Brad, I mean, if if we don't
aggressively
work to, you know, sell our technologies
around the world, uh, other countries
are going to do that. And you know
reminded of uh
story long time ago. The defense
department had this thing called MTOPS
and it was a it was a uh Bill might
remember this but it was it was like a
restriction on how fast the computer was
that you know you had to get approval
from the government and to sell it. And
uh I was in this group of technology
CEOs and we we went we went to the
Pentagon to talk to the generals and uh
and before we went we went to Toys R Us
store and we bought a PlayStation
[Laughter]
and we took it out of the box and we
brought it to the the Pentagon, you
know, this big room and we, you know,
set the PlayStation down on there and we
said, you know, this exceeds the MTOP uh
restriction,
>> right?
>> Uh but unfortunately, you know, it's not
it's made by a Japanese company and so,
you know, it doesn't follow under the
rules, so anybody can buy it. It's it's
also $399, right? So, uh, you guys think
you're going to control the access to
this thing or little things that, you
know, move easily,
uh, you're kind of fooling yourselves.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, we have to come up with more
intelligent ways to restrict access to
the most advanced technologies.
And um
often times you just get all kinds of
unintended consequences with these rules
that are created
and it doesn't create the outcome that
that uh the government was originally
looking for.
>> Well, and and I think that's a a good
way to wrap. Um Michael, it's awesome
having you here. I I I wanted to say,
you know, Michael and myself, Darasher
Shahi, David Solomon from Goldman, Renee
Hos from ARM, uh, you know, uh, Bill
McDermott from, uh, uh, Service Now, and
and a group of us were at the White
House, uh, a few weeks ago to testify on
the Invest America Act, and Michael
kicked it off, and, uh, if you haven't
seen the video of it, we'll include it
here. you should watch it. But he
reminded everybody, captivated the
entire room.
>> We view this initiative as a powerful
platform for philanthropic innovation
aimed at helping children thrive
wherever they come from, particularly
those families who have been
historically left behind. Mr. President,
you articulated it perfectly. These
Invest America accounts will give every
new American child a genuine opportunity
to participate in history's greatest
engine of economic growth, the American
economy. These in the funds in these
accounts invested in American enterprise
and innovation will grow over time into
substantial nest eggs providing support
for education, home ownership, and
starting families. The ability of
families, friends, benefactors, and
employers to match the government's
generosity amplifies the life-changing
potential of this initiative. Thank you,
Mr. President, for your visionary
leadership on this critical issue. These
Invest America accounts will profoundly
impact countless young Americans,
ensuring they truly benefit from what
Abraham Lincoln described as the right
of every American, the right to rise. As
I sit here on on the Fourth of July
weekend, you know, I'm just I'm I'm
super grateful to you, Michael. You did
a huge service to the country by helping
us get the Invest America Act passed.
And I think everything that we just
talked about here, including allowing
American technologies to go compete.
Remember, these Invest America accounts
are only worth something if America does
great, right? And the fact of the matter
is Warren Buff Warren Buffett has said
Warren Buffett has said the smartest
thing he did was just bet on America.
He bet on America. And I'm I'm betting
that the next 50 years, next hundred
years are going to be an American
century again. But we can't get in the
way of the innovation and the
entrepreneurship
uh you know and um the the creative
destruction frankly that has allowed
America to be so great. And uh finding
that balance between between government
and Silicon Valley has always been uh
you know challenging. you know, as you
just related, Michael, with MTOPS, but
you know, we have to show up. We have to
have a voice. We have to, you know,
continue to push in that direction. Um,
I think if we're allowed to compete, our
best days lie ahead. If we get in the
way, Bill, like you talk about, then I
think we can upend our advantage. Thanks
for joining us, though. Notice, Michael,
great to see you.
>> Appreciate it.
>> Great to see you. Byebye.
>> We'll talk soon. Take care.
[Music]
[Applause]
As a reminder to everybody, just our
opinions, not investment advice.